<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_opn_jtp_w5" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title><ph>Adding additional non-hot swap <xref href="SCSI.dita"/> hard disks to a cluster node
            on a shared <xref href="SCSI.dita"/> bus</ph></title>
    <prolog>
        <author>Windows (TM)</author>
        <metadata>
                <indexterm>SCSI</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Cluster node<index-see-also>Node</index-see-also></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Bus</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Non-hot swappable<indexterm>Hard disk</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Hard disk<indexterm>Non-hot swappable</indexterm></indexterm>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>If your computer does not support hot swapping, you must shut down both cluster nodes
                and turn off the computers to add or replace <xref href="SCSI.dita"/> disks. </p>
            <p>You must shut down the cluster nodes completely because the shared <xref
                    href="SCSI.dita"/> bus is disconnected when you add new disks to the <xref
                    href="SCSI.dita"/> bus. If the bus is disconnected while you use the cluster,
                you may lose data or have other drive-related failures. We recommends that you turn
                off all the attached hardware while you perform this procedure. </p>
            <p>To add additional <xref href="SCSI.dita"/> hard disks to an existing cluster, use the
                appropriate method for your version of the operating system. </p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Change the startup values for the Cluster Disk device (for Windows NT 4.0
                    Server) or Clusdisk device (for Windows 2000 Server or for Windows Server 2003)
                    and the Cluster service to Disabled. To do so, follow these steps:</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep platform="Windows NT 4.0 server">
                        <cmd>For Windows NT 4.0 Server:</cmd>
                        <info>
                            <ol >
                                <li>Click <b>Start</b>, point to <b>Settings</b>, and then click
                                        <b>Control Panel</b>.</li>
                                <li>Double-click <b>Devices</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the list of devices, click <b>Cluster Disk</b>, and then
                                    click <b>Startup</b>.</li>
                                <li>Click <b>Disabled</b>, click <b>OK</b>, and then click
                                        <b>Close</b>.</li>
                                <li>Close the <b>Devices</b> window.</li>
                                <li>In Control Panel, double-click <b>Services</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the list of services, click <b>Cluster Server</b>, and then
                                    click <b>Startup</b>.</li>
                                <li>Change the setting to <b>Disabled</b>, click <b>OK</b>, and then
                                    click <b>Close</b>.</li>
                                <li>Close the <b>Services</b> window, and then close Control
                                    Panel.</li>
                            </ol>
                        </info>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003:</cmd>
                        <info>
                            <ol >
                                <li>Right-click <b>My Computer</b>, and then click
                                    <b>Manage</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the left pane, click <b>Device Manager</b>.</li>
                                <li>On the <b>View</b> menu, click <b>Show hidden devices</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the right pane, expand <b>Non-Plug and Play Drivers</b>, and
                                    then double-click <b>Clusdisk</b>.</li>
                                <li>On the <b>Driver</b> tab, in the <b>Type</b> box, click
                                        <b>Disabled</b>, and then click <b>OK</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the left pane, expand <b>Services and Applications</b>, and
                                    then click <b>Services</b>.</li>
                                <li>In the right pane, double-click the <b>Cluster Server</b>
                                    service.</li>
                                <li>In the <b>Startup type</b> box, click <b>Disabled</b>, and then
                                    click <b>OK</b>.</li>
                                <li>Close the Computer Management tool.</li>
                            </ol>
                        </info>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Shut down both of the cluster nodes and turn off both of the computers.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Turn off all the SCSI devices on the shared SCSI bus.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add or replace the hard disks on the shared SCSI bus.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>
                        <note type="note">Make sure that every device on the shared SCSI bus has a
                            unique SCSI ID. SCSI host adapters each use a SCSI ID (typically 6 and
                            7). Also, make sure that the SCSI bus is terminated correctly.</note>
                    </p>
                    <p> For additional information about connecting SCSI devices or about SCSI
                        termination, click the following article numbers to view the articles in the
                        Microsoft Knowledge Base: <xref
                            href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/101352" format="html"
                           >101352</xref> Properly connecting SCSI devices to
                        Windows NT <xref href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/92765"
                            format="html" >92765</xref> Terminating a SCSI
                        Device</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start node 1 of the cluster and let Windows to completely start on the
                    node.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Turn on node 2 of the cluster, but do not let Windows start on the second node.
                    To stop Windows from loading:</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep platform="Windows NT 4.0 server">
                        <cmd>For Windows NT 4.0 Server, at the <b>OS Loader</b> menu, press SPACEBAR
                            to pause the startup. When you pause the startup, you prevent Windows NT
                            from loading.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows 2000 Server, when the computer first starts and you see the
                                <b>For troubleshooting and advanced startup options for Windows
                                2000, press F8</b> message at the bottom of the screen, press F8 to
                            pause the computer.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows Server 2003, press F8 when the Power On Self Test (POST) is
                            complete. </cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On node 1, partition and format the new drive, and then assign drive letters to
                    the new disks that are available on the shared SCSI bus.</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows NT 4.0 Server:</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click <b>Start</b>, point to <b>Programs</b>, point to
                                <b>Administrative Tools</b>, and then click <b>Disk
                                Administrator</b> (Windisk.exe).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click the free space on the new drive, and then click
                                <b>Create</b> to create a partition.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Type a partition size in megabytes (MB), and then click
                            <b>OK</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click the new partition, click <b>Commit Changes Now</b>, click
                                <b>Yes</b> to save the changes, and then click <b>OK</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click the new partition, and then click <b>Format</b>. Under
                                <b>File System</b>, click <b>NTFS</b>, click <b>Start</b>, click
                                <b>OK</b>, click <b>OK</b> again, and then click <b>Close</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click the partition, click <b>Assign Drive Letter</b>, click the
                            drive letter that you want, click <b>OK</b>, and then click <b>Yes</b>
                            to assign a drive letter to the partition. </cmd>
                        <info>For additional information about best practices for drive-letter
                            assignments on a server cluster, click the following article number to
                            view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base: <xref
                                href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/318534" format="html"
                                scope="external">318534</xref> Best practices for drive-letter
                            assignments on a server cluster.</info>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>On the Tools menu, click Properties, and then in the Label box, type a
                            volume label that matches the corresponding drive letter.For example, to
                            label the partition for drive E, type E.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Repeat steps 1 to 7 of this section for each new drive and
                            partition.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>For Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003:</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click <b>My Computer</b>, and then click <b>Manage</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Expand <b>Storage</b>, and then click <b>Disk Management</b>.</cmd>
                        <info>
                            <note type="note">If you connect to a new drive, the Write Signature and
                                Upgrade Disk Wizard starts automatically. Click <b>Next</b> to go
                                through the wizard. The wizard sets the disk to dynamic. To reset
                                the disk to Basic, right-click <b>Disk n</b>, where n specifies the
                                disk you are working with, and then click <b>Revert To Basic
                                    Disk</b>. Make sure that the disk is set to Basic before you
                                partition the hard disk in step 3. For additional information about
                                dynamic and basic disks in a Cluster service environment, click the
                                following article number to view the article in the Microsoft
                                Knowledge Base: <xref
                                    href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/237853"
                                    format="html" >237853</xref> Dynamic disk
                                configuration unavailable for server cluster disk resources.</note>
                        </info>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right-click the unallocated space on the new drive, and then click
                                <b>Create Partition</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In the <b>Create Partition Wizard</b>, click <b>Next</b>, click the
                            type of partition that you want, click <b>Next</b>, type the size of the
                            partition in megabytes (MB), and then click <b>Next</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click the drive letter that you want to assign to the partition, and
                            then click <b>Next</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Under <b>Formatting</b>, make sure that the <b>File system to use</b>
                            drop-down list is set to NTFS.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In the <b>Volume label</b> box, type a volume label that matches the
                            corresponding drive letter, click <b>Next</b> and then click
                                <b>Finish</b>. For example, to label the partition for drive E, type
                            E.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Repeat steps 1 to 7 of this section for each new drive and
                            partition.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Restore the original startup values for the Cluster Disk or Clusdisk device and
                    the Cluster service. To do so, follow the procedure outlined in steps 1a or 1b,
                    depending on your operating system, except:</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep platform="Windows NT 4.0 server">
                        <cmd>In <b>Devices</b>, change the <b>Startup</b> value for the <b>Cluster
                                Disk</b> device (in Windows NT 4.0 Server) or <b>Clusdisk</b> device
                            (in Windows 2000 Server or in Windows Server 2003) to
                            <b>System</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In <b>Services</b>, change the <b>Startup</b> value for the <b>Cluster
                                Server</b> service to <b>Automatic</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Restart node 1, but do not let Windows start on the first node. To stop Windows
                    from loading:</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows NT 4.0 Server, at the <b>OS Loader</b> menu, press SPACEBAR
                            to pause the startup. When you pause the startup, you prevent Windows NT
                            from loading.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows 2000 Server, when the computer first starts and you see the
                                <b>For troubleshooting and advanced startup options for Windows
                                2000, press F8</b> message at the bottom of the screen, press F8 to
                            pause the computer.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows Server 2003, press F8 when the Power On Self Test (POST) is
                            complete. </cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On node 2, let the operating system start. To do so, follow the steps as
                    appropriate for your operating system:</cmd>
                <choices >
                    <choice>For Windows NT 4.0 Server, press SPACEBAR. </choice>
                    <choice>For Windows 2000 Server, use the arrow keys to select <b>Boot
                        Normally</b>, and then press ENTER.</choice>
                    <choice>For Windows Server 2003, use the arrow keys to select <b>Start
                                    Windows Normally</b>, press ENTER, use the arrow keys to select
                        the operating system, and then press ENTER.</choice>
                </choices>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On node 2, use Disk Administrator or the Computer Management tool (depending on
                    your operating system) to assign drive letters to the new disks that are
                    available on the shared SCSI bus. Make sure that when you assign drive letters
                    to the disks on the shared SCSI bus, you use the same letter assignments as on
                    the first node (created in step 7).</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Restore the original startup values for the Cluster Disk or Clusdisk device and
                    the Cluster service. To do so, follow the steps discussed in steps 1a or 1b,
                    depending on your operating system, except:</cmd>
                <substeps >
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In <b>Devices</b>, change the <b>Startup</b> value for the <b>Cluster
                                Disk</b> device (in Windows NT 4.0 Server) or <b>Clusdisk</b> device
                            (in Windows 2000 Server or in Windows Server 2003) to
                            <b>System</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In <b>Services</b>, change the <b>Startup</b> value for the <b>Cluster
                                Server</b> service to <b>Automatic</b>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Restart node 2 and let the computer completely restart.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Use the Cluster Administrator tool to create a physical disk resource for each
                    new disk, and then bring the disks online.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If there are errors, check the SCSI cabling, termination and SCSI ID assignment
                    for correct configuration. For additional information about cluster disk and
                    drive connection issues, visit the following Microsoft Web
                    site:http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc757627.aspx</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If there are no errors, let the operating system start on node 1. To do so,
                    follow the steps as appropriate for your operating system:</cmd>
                <substeps platform="">
                    <substep platform="Windows NT 4.0 server">
                        <cmd>For Windows NT 4.0 Server, press SPACEBAR.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows 2000 Server, use the arrow keys to select <b>Boot
                                Normally</b>, and then press ENTER.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>For Windows Server 2003, use the arrow keys to select <b>Start Windows
                                Normally</b>, press ENTER, use the arrow keys to select the
                            operating system, and then press ENTER.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>When the node comes online and appears so in Cluster Administrator, try to move
                    the group to the node. To do so, right-click the group, and then select the
                    option <b>Move</b>. The group and all of its resources move to another node.
                    Test to verify that you can go online on each node.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
